[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm William Henry, and
this is "Ascension Keepers."
We saw how in 586 BC,
the ascension-minded Jews
were exiled to Babylon.
They took their ascension
wisdom with them.
These events were the beginning
of the Essene movement
and that of other
ascension keepers.
While in Babylon, these
forerunners of the Essenes
followed the way of the
Magi, researching and weaving
Babylonian, Mesopotamian,
Egyptian, Iranian
or Zoroastrian, and Pythagorean
alchemical philosophies
and ascension
practices that feature
humans opening holes in space
and ascending to heaven.
Pythagoras is a central
figure in our story.
This sixth century BC
wonder philosopher, master
mathematician, and
scientist deeply
influenced the great
Greek philosophers,
Plato and Aristotle, and
hence, Western philosophy.
Some even claim Pythagoras
was an Essene or Therapeutae.
While it's difficult
to say with certainty
that Pythagoras was an Essene.
More easily proven is that
the Essenes were Pythagoreans.
In fact, he is considered
to be a candidate
for the father of the Essenes.
For this reason,
Pythagoras's story
is more than worth a look.
Born between 580 and 570
BC in southern Italy,
many fascinating stories
are connected to Pythagoras,
including a belief that he
was immaculately conceived,
or even was an
extraterrestrial being.
The god of healing,
Apollo, is said
to have incarnated in
Pythagoras's human body
in order to instruct
the human race.
He is known for having a golden
thigh, the ability to bilocate,
and for teaching
humanity about the nature
and the fate of the soul.
One apocryphal tale told in
Porphyry's "Life of Pythagoras"
tells how, as a boy,
Pythagoras lived
with a star child
named Astraeus,
who is adopted by
his father and raised
as a brother of Pythagoras.
The star child
instructed Pythagoras.
According to his biographer,
Iamblichus, Pythagoras
spent his youth
in Egypt, where he
was instructed in the secret
teachings of the priests.
It may be more
than a coincidence
that his name rings of peuta,
as do so many other key elements
to our story, including the
Therapeutae or Therapeuta.
Pythagoras next went
to Babylon, where
he learned the teachings
of the Zoroastrian magi.
Then he went to India,
where he learned
the Hindu mystery
teachings about the Devas,
benevolent spiritual
beings, supernatural beings
in the Vedic-era literature,
with Indra as their leader,
and ascension to India's
heaven as their goal.
Buddha descended from
heaven at this time.
The Buddha himself
chose to ascend
to the heaven of the 33 gods
in order to preach to the gods.
At Mount Carmel in
northern Israel,
Pythagoras was trained by the
Hebrew prophets, who presumably
knew the secret of how Elijah
ascended to heaven just
200 years before.
Mount Carmel, in fact, became
the site of an important Essene
community.
And some believe
Jesus was closely
associated with the
Essenes of Mount Carmel.
Pythagoras taught
that if someone
can purify his light
body, which he taught
was made of an intangible
substance, like light,
he can journey to
the stars and beyond.
This light body of the
gods is within our flesh.
And by certain
musical sounds, said
Pythagoras, it rides on
beams of light to the stars.
The Pythagoreans were
divided in their schools
into novices and perfectae.
They separated themselves
from other humans,
as did the Essenes.
They lived in monasteries,
practiced vegetarianism,
greeted the rising Sun,
shared property communally,
and wore white garments as
a symbol for their quest
to attain purity, perfection,
and the body of light.
Many of these key Buddhist
and Pythagorean philosophies
were later mixed into the
foundations of the Essene
lifestyle.
The bridge between
Babylon and the Essenes
went through Alexandria, Egypt.
After the time of Exile,
some of the Jewish mystics
stayed in Babylon.
Others returned to
Jerusalem, while still others
resettled in Alexandria, where
an ascension revolution is
in full swing.
Founded by Alexander
the Great in 331 BC,
Alexandria, like
Plato's Athens, was
a crossroads of the world, where
Macedonians and Greeks lived
with Egyptians and
Jews, and scholars
dreamed of gathering
with other scholars.
At the center of the
Alexandrian Ascension
Academy was the
Library of Alexandria,
the largest collection of
ancient texts ever assembled.
Alexandria was
considered the capital
of knowledge and
learning, in part
because of this great library
and its ascension texts.
This library was
conceived by Ptolemy Soter
I, a Greek Macedonian general
under Alexander the Great, who
became the ruler of
Egypt around 323 BC,
and became the founder of
both the Ptolemaic kingdom,
and the Ptolemaic dynasty.
The library they created was
part of a larger research
institution called the
Musaeum of Alexandria,
where many of the most famous
thinkers of the ancient world
studied, and which functioned
as a sort of research institute.
Mystics and scholars from Italy,
Greece, Anatolia, the Levant,
as well as from
North Africa, Arabia,
and even from Persia and India,
came together in this place.
It was an ascension
convergence unlike any other
before, or maybe
even perhaps since.
The Septuagint translation
of the Old Testament
was written in Greek at
Alexandria in 285 BC.
Alexandria flourished
under the patronage
of the Ptolemaic
dynasty, and functioned
as a major center
of scholarship,
until the Roman conquest
of Egypt in 30 BC.
Ptolemy I introduced Serapis
as the official deity
of Alexandria and Egypt.
Serapis was a combination
of Isis and Osiris.
Serapis was devised
on his orders
as a means to unify the Greeks
and Egyptians in his realm.
The temple to Serapis,
that Serapeum,
became the center of
worship in Alexandria.
It's interesting that
the named Therapeutae
was a Greek cultic term
for worshippers of Serapis.
And it is from their name
that we get the words
therapy and therapeutic.
This enigmatic group
of healers were
known for wearing
white linen robes,
and at the temple of
Isis in Herculaneum
was found several mural frescoes
dating from 100 BC to 62 AD.
One shows Osiris, the
Egyptian god of resurrection,
with the serpent of Serapis.
A second one portrays a
scene in the worship of Isis
by Alexandrian goddesses.
Before the door, at
the head of the stairs,
stands a Therapeutic priest
with the shaven crown
of the Alexandrian priesthood,
holding with both hands
an urn breast high, while behind
him are two others, one of whom
is probably a woman.
This is as close to a
photograph of an Essenes
that we will ever get.
Philo of Alexandria, who
described the group in his
"On the Contemplative
Life," written
around 10 of the current
era, compared the Therapeutae
to the Essenes,
as both sects were
known for their exemplary
religious devotion
and ascetic practices.
In his book, Philo
described the Therapeutae
as quote, "citizens of
heaven and of the universe,
and truly acceptable to
the Father and creator
of the world."
Eusebius, the eminent theologian
of the third century AD
and the father of
Christian history,
regarded the Therapeutae as
the first Christian church
in Egypt.
700 years later, the Christian
Gnostics of Alexandria
were still seeking spiritual
knowledge from this deity.
Christian Gnostics
made no distinction
between Christ and Serapis.
This will explain the Roman
Emperor Hadrian's odd remark
that Christians and the
worshippers of Serapis
are the same.
Those devoted to
Serapis call themselves
the bishops of Christ.
In order to get the full
picture of the Therapeutae
and what was being
discussed in Alexandria,
we should know that in addition
to the Library of Alexandria
and the Temple of Serapis,
the Ptolemies rebuilt
the major temples of upper
Egypt, including Dendera
and the Temple of Hathor,
the goddess of love and joy,
Edfu, the Temple of
Horus, the god of light,
Philae, the Temple of Isis,
Esna, the Temple of Khenoum,
a creator god.
And the walls of these
temples feature the Ptolemies
and their ascension at Kom Ombo.
They are portrayed receiving
the ascension mysteries
from Horus, who holds the
symbol for the hundreds
of thousands of years,
or eternal life.
In this scene, it is
the cat goddess, Bast,
who does the initiating.
Besides the Ptolemies, we
always find their mark or sign.
It is the magical knot symbol
of the Egyptian goddess, Neith,
the weaver goddess who created
all that is in the world.
It resembles the Egyptian
symbol of the ankh or key
of life symbol.
This tells us all we need
to know about the intentions
of the Ptolemies.
They associated themselves with
the divine feminine weavers.
And they sought, and
likely possessed,
the secrets of ascension.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I have to mention that those
incredible 80-ton granite
boxes in the Serapeum
of Saqqara, Egypt
were said to have been built
by the Ptolemaic devotees
of Serapis, for whom
the complex is known.
We are told that these massive
boxes were tombs for bulls.
They are hermetically-sealed,
perfectly machined.
It would take 20
or more men just
to squeeze themselves
into this space just
to move the lid of one of these.
Some authors believe
Jesus made contact
with the Therapeutae community,
which later would produce some
of the leading
philosophical scholars
of early Christian
gnosticism, who went on
to create different schools,
the most important of which
were hermeticism, neoplatonism,
and gnosticism, all of which
we will discuss later.
Where the Therapeutae came from
and where exactly they lived
and what exactly they believed
and what happened to them
are all a mystery.
However, many
scholars now believe
they were infused with knowledge
from Buddhist missionaries who
came from India.
Specifically, some scholars have
proposed that the Therapeutae
may have been influenced by,
or were even descendants of,
Emperor Ashoka's
Buddhist missionaries,
who he dispatched to spread
the gospel of Buddha.
Shortly after the Exile
of the Jews to Babylon,
the Buddha was born in India.
As part of the Shakyamuni,
or Children of the Sun,
Buddha was shown as a star
child in Buddhist art.
The first century Indian
poet, Ashvaghosha,
in his "Buddhacarita" describes
the birth or appearance
of Buddha, the son of the
Virgin Maya, on Earth.
When born, he was so lustrous
and steadfast that it
appeared as if the young
Sun had come down to Earth.
And yet, when people gazed
at his dazzling brilliance,
he held their eyes
like the Moon.
More, his limbs shown with a
radiant hue of precious gold
and lit up the space all around.
This remarkable birth
legend certainly
connects Buddha and his
clan to the idea of light,
light beings, and illumination.
During the two centuries
after Buddha's transition,
Buddhism split into two
schools or streams, Theravada
and Mahayana.
These are known as the great
and small chariots or vehicles
of enlightenment.
These mysteries of
the chariot will soon
dovetail with the
Essene Merkaba,
or throne-chariot mysteries.
Mahayana Buddhism often includes
veneration of celestial beings,
other Buddhas and bodhisattvas,
ceremonies, religious rituals,
magical rites, and the
use of icons, images,
and other sacred
objects and symbols,
including the
Buddha's footprints.
The other stream,
Theravada, which
comes from the Pali term thera,
meaning elders, plus vada,
or doctrine, is the
doctrine of the elders,
or the way of the elders.
It's the school of
Buddhism that follows
the original teachings of
Buddha known as the Pali Canon.
They strive to become arhats,
or perfected saints who
have attained enlightenment,
shining bodies, and nirvana.
Among the famed
Edicts of Ashoka,
or rock inscriptions
that can still
be found marking Ashoka's
empire in modern day
India and Pakistan,
are statements
about how the great Buddhist
king sent missionaries
throughout the known
world, including Alexandria
specifically, to proselytize
the Buddhist faith to which he
himself had converted.
As a result of this, a steady
stream of Buddhist monks
made their way to
Alexandria in 250 BC,
where they integrated
with the philosophers
and mystics of the great
city of the philosophers.
Among them were the Therapeutae,
from the Pali term theraputa,
literally meaning
son of the elders.
We note that this name is
very close to Theravada,
the doctrine of the elders.
These mysterious
Buddhist mystics,
who were known for their
flowing white robes,
established an embassy outside
the walls of Alexandria
on the shores of Lake
Mareotis near Alexandria.
And from the Therapeutae,
it is quite possible
a Buddhist influence spread
to both the Essenes, who
were operating a similar
monkish order in Palestine,
and to the Gnostics.
The similarities between
the monastic practices
of the Therapeutae and
Buddhist monastic practices
have led to suggestions that
the Therapeutae were, in fact,
Buddhist monks who had
Alexandria, being descendants
of Ashoka's emissaries
to the west,
and who influenced the early
formation of Christianity.
The Gnostic idea of liberating
the soul from entrapment
in matter is not dissimilar
to the teachings embodied
in "The Four Noble
Truths of the Buddha."
In Buddhism, mankind is seen as
trapped in suffering by desire.
Its cessation is
said to be realized
by an eightfold path
of right thought,
right deed, right
attitude, among others.
Rather than salvation,
nirvana is postulated.
And before he passed
into Mahaparinibbana,
Buddha Shakyamuni prophesied
that in eight or 12 years,
he would send an emanation
to continue his activity,
protecting the teachings and
turning the wheel of Vajrayana,
the third aspect of Buddhism.
The adherents of
the Mahayana sect
are known as bodhisattvas,
who are instructed
to become Buddha ultimately.
And they have chosen to
reincarnate on Earth in order
to lead all others to nirvana.
Paramita, meaning
perfection or completeness,
is a Pali term for
the qualities that
must be filled by a
bodhisattva during the course
of their spiritual development.
Interestingly, the
Sanskrit word paramita
means from beyond,
gone to the beyond,
or to cross over
to the other shore.
It is derived from
para and ita, meaning
a cross, over, or beyond.
The idea of an ascension
portal as the way
to go beyond to other
supernatural realms
is suggested.
The Essenes called themselves
the house of the perfect ones.
Their goal was
also to go beyond.
Paramita may also be
translated perfect realization,
or reaching beyond limitation.
In other words, it
refers to the achievement
of a transcendental
state, which I believe
is equatable with the
Essene concept of angels,
or ascended celestial beings.
With the infusion of
the Buddhist stream
into the Jewish stream, we
are witnessing an escalation
or acceleration of
the ascension program
that will culminate
with the Essenes calling
in a high celestial
being who will further
demonstrate these mysteries.
Many believe that
figure was Jesus,
who demonstrated the light body
effect by turning his flesh
and blood body into
celestial flesh.
Before Jesus arrived,
however, another figure also
demonstrated this
transformation,
and he may have been the one
that illuminated the Essenes'
understanding of perfection.
According to Tibetan
tradition, Garab Dorje,
whose name means
indestructible joy,
is a miracle child who brought
the great perfection or rainbow
body teaching from the celestial
realms between 184 BC and 57
BC.
This coincides
precisely with the time
when the Essenes were
operating full-blown
in Alexandria and Jerusalem.
Garab Dorje is considered to
be an emanation of the Buddha
Vajrasattva, who taught
the great perfection
in the heavens.
He became the first human
vichara, a Sanskrit word
meaning knowledge holder.
Having attained the great
perfection, a rainbow
body of light,
Garab Dorje's story
is semi-historical, but
completely phenomenal
in the way it connects
with the Essene symbolism.
He is said to have spent
32 years meditating
in the residence
of a mountain god.
Here, he achieved realization
and a rainbow body,
and the earth shook seven times.
When word of his feet
traveled to the Hindu king,
soldiers were dispatched
to apprehend him.
And when the king's
soldiers arrived,
Garab Dorje ascended
into the sky and escaped.
Having reached complete
enlightenment and attainment
of the rainbow body of light
through the great perfection,
Garab Dorje transmitted
the teachings
to his retinue of
exceptional beings.
The earth quaked and
miraculous sounds were heard
when Garab Dorje ascended.
The cloud of rainbow
light obviously
connects to the
rainbow light body.
During the years
following Garab Dorje is
when the mystical Essenes
penned the story of Enoch,
the messiah initiate of
the Dead Sea Scrolls,
the story of a man who is
translated or transferred
into a glorious rainbow-like
celestial being by the watcher
angel Michael, who anointed him
with an oil that transformed
his body into glorious light
that matches the perfect body.
And in my humble opinion,
the perfection of the Essenes
is the great perfection of the
Tibetan rainbow light body.
And we can make that
connection through Garab Dorje.
The possibility
Theravada Buddhism
had an influence on Greek
and early Christian thought,
as well as the person known
as Jesus, Isa, or Yeshua
is very real.
The Essenes then spent
nearly 200 years,
from 150 BC to 70 AD, fusing
esoteric Buddhist, Zoroastrian,
Egyptian, and Judaic teachings
about human transformation
or perfection into
celestial beings
into a practice
aimed at transmuting
the human body into light.
These practices were enhanced
with knowledge derived
from the Essenes'
close encounters
with angels or celestial
beings who they
claimed were living with them.
Jesus embodied these
advanced practices
and modeled them in his own
perfection and resurrection.
In one story, Jesus
told a rich man,
"if thou will be perfect--"
meaning whole, holy,
and complete--
"go and sell what
you have and give it
to the poor, and thou shalt
have treasure in heaven,
and then you can
come and follow me."
In the Gnostic
Gospel of Philip, it
says we must become perfect
before leaving this world.
What I noticed is that
all of these statements
can be read as references to
the Tibetan rainbow light body.
Only now, we can see that
the rainbow light body
teaching is the product of a
concerted effort of ascension
keepers.
In my opinion,
this is why we can
see how the Essenes fused
the ancient Egyptian star
religion with esoteric
Buddhism and Jewish mysticism
into a full-blown revelation
of extraterrestrial contact.
Going beyond close
encounters of the first
through the fifth
kind, the Essenes
claimed to be taken up to heaven
and transformed into angels.
These are close encounters
of the eighth and ninth kind.
In this story, we introduced
the Jewish mystical teachings
about the Merkaba or
throne-chariot as their vehicle
ascension, and traced the
origins of this practice
to India and Egypt.
We have been asked to
understand the true nature
of the incredible goings
on in ancient Alexandria.
Many of us have heard of this
wonderful library and its lost
texts, but now, by
pulling together
the story of Pythagoras
and of the Buddhists
coming into Alexandria,
we can understand
that there was this tremendous
undercurrent of knowledge that
was coming forward.
Just imagine what it must have
been like at that library,
to have these missionaries
coming in from India, to have
these Magi coming in from
Iran and Iraq and elsewhere,
and the mystics from
Egypt, all getting
together and formulating a
new way for humanity to live,
enabling all of future humanity
to tap into inner resources
that we are only just now
beginning to fully understand.
We have to recognize that the
Ptolemies were among the most
formidable of generals,
being the generals that
succeeded Alexander the Great,
his hand-picked successors.
They're among the greatest
builders in the world.
When people visit Egypt today
and go to the five jewel
temples of Dendera, and
Esna, and Philae, and others,
they're walking in the
footsteps of the Ptolemies.
But now, through
our investigation,
we understand that
the Ptolemies were
walking in the
footsteps themselves
of some of the greatest
ascension keepers in history.
We one day hope to
be able to recover
even more of the knowledge
of the Library of Alexandria,
just as the Essenes
did in their time.
And that day will be
absolutely extraordinary.
It will be a revelation
of cosmic knowledge
and cause a blossoming
of our understanding
of our true nature
and ascension,
maybe such that we haven't
seen since the time
of the great Library
of Alexandria itself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]